PAGE 332
332 CHAPTER 11. ANAL YSES AND OUTPUT CONTROL (BA TCH MODE)
DC analysis is complete as soon as one successful step is found, according to some convergence
criteria..
The default behaviour during gmin stepping is the following: Switch gmin to a start value (1e-
3), followed by a first trial of gmin stepping, using the true device gmin, then try dynamic gmin
stepping with diagonal parallel gmin elements. If variable dyngmin is set, only dynamic gmin
stepping is used.
Source stepping sets all supply voltages and currents to zero, then ramps them up dynamically
to 100%.
The transient op calculation uses a transient simulation, with default parameters set by ngspice
(initial iteration, gmin and source stepping enabled, optran step size10n, total optran time 10u).
The results of this transient simulation then are used as the operating point for starting any other
simulation (tran, ac, noise, pz etc.). No other data of this transient op are stored anywhere.
General form:
optran !noopiter gminsteps srcsteps tstep tstop supramp
Example 1:
optran 0 0 0 100n 10u 0
Example 1 changes the defaults to: no inital op iteration, no gmin stepping, no source stepping,
i.e. directly move to transient op with transient step and stop times given. Flagsupramp ins cur-
rently not used. The optran command may be put into one of the initialization files.spiceinit
or spinit. or into the .control section.
Example 2:
optran 1 1 1 100n 10u 0
Example 2 shows an optran command which restores the initial conditions.
Note: an operating point analysis is automatically performed prior to a transient analysis (if the
parameter uic is not selected) to determine the transient initial conditions, and prior to an AC
small-signal, Noise, and Pole-Zero analysis to determine the linearized, small-signal models for
nonlinear devices. These data are not stored, except for setting theKEEPOPINFO variable 11.1.2,
that prompts creating an OP plot in addition to the TRAN, AC, Noise, or PZ plots.